[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: The
world has been through one
of the greatest
stressors imaginable--
a pandemic that ground the
global economy to a virtual
halt for a few months.
The gift in this is that we
gave people time to be still
and reflect on what matters.
Was our way of
living sustainable?
Was it satisfying
on a social level?
What needs to emerge for a
more whole way of engaging
with life?
Zeus Yiamouyiannis, author
of Transforming Economy
is with me today to
unwind how we ended up
in such an unsustainable
way of life,
and where we can go from here.
So hello.
Good to have you back again.
>> ZEUS YIAMOUYIANNIS:
Hi Regina.
>> REGINA: Not that I
don't see you every day.
So let's go into this.
You were commenting
one time, and I had
to make a little note of it.
It's so strange that
before the whole shut down,
the global shut down
occurred, people
would go out to restaurants
and we'd always comment.
They'd be sitting there,
whole family with four
or five people all
on their devices--
on their cell phones.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yeah.
>> REGINA: Not even engaged with
each other while they're all
going to their favorite
little cafes and restaurants.
And now with none
of that available,
the engagement between people
is just wonderful to see.
Where we live, it's
families out riding bikes
with their kids, people Zooming.
You're involved with that.
Most of our friends are Zooming
family members and people
they went to school
with around the world.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yeah.
>> REGINA: Something beautiful
is coming out of something that
feels like it's a catastrophe.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Well I think
what happened was as long as we
could get our, sort
of, social needs met--
kind of outside social
needs met, which is just
being around each other.
We kind of lost the
internal connection
we had with other people.
So you know, everything
was a flurry of activity.
And with the virtual reality
and with social media
and with phones,
there always seemed
to be something
urgent that stepped
in front of the important.
And, you know, as Gaia, as
your own show demonstrates over
and over, you cannot neglect the
internal without consequences.
And a lot of times,
the only thing standing
in the way of that internal is
our recognition and that time
of reflection you're mentioning.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS:
And so this pandemic,
especially the lockdowns and
removal away from that flurry
of activity, I would call
it addictive activity,
economic and social activity
allowed for this internal voice
to be heard, and the desire and
the loneliness to really reach
someone on a substantive level.
Because even though,
you know, you
used the example of
families sitting around
like being involved
in their phones--
even though we're using
electronic technology,
we're using it and much
more intimate way now
to get families together.
You know, even yoga
studios are doing it over--
>> REGINA: I took tap classes.
Online tap dancing classes.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
So we're beginning to explore
not so much the difference
between technology
in a mechanical world
and a human world, which was
kind of the old division.
Now we're beginning to see
that there are intimate ways
to use technologies
and non-intimate ways.
>> REGINA: So they work for us.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: So
that they work for us.
And the same with when
we're together-- there
are intimate ways to do that.
Or we can be texting other
people, or even each other
over the table while
we're together,
instead of actually
talking and warmly letting
the energy go between us.
And beginning to
develop things that
are much more
important to us today,
rather than some diversion
or some little game
that we happen to
be involved in.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
It was kind of--
we were just in an addicted
chronic state of busyness.
It wasn't serving
anyone because, as I've
said in other shows, the
one thing that's commonly
said right now as things are
just getting ready to open back
up again from this
in America anyway,
is that people guiltily say,
I really kind of like this.
I like this pace of life.
That means we've really been
doing ourselves a disservice.
If this is kind of
a universal-- now
there are people
who are suffering,
who don't have enough food who
are fighting with each other.
But by and large, that not being
the case, people otherwise OK
are seeing this
feels really good.
So now when you get
right into your book,
because this is where some of
the problems that got us here
started.
The subtitle is from
Corrupted Capitalism
to Connected Communities.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
>> REGINA: So what does
that mean, first of all,
corrupted capitalism?
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: In
very, very simple terms,
corrupted capitalism is when
people serve money rather than
money serving people.
When you give your
autonomy, your sovereignty,
and in some sense, your choices
over to the mechanical things
in life that are
driven by money,
that are driven for money and
the accumulation of money,
you're going to
lose your humanity.
And that's why it's corrupt.
Right, capitalism, and I
talk about in this book
democratic capitalism,
which is the reverse where
money actually serves people.
You know, where we aren't
trying to cut corners
when we make products.
Or we aren't trying to put a
bunch of pesticides on fields
just to make a
couple of extra bucks
or produce a couple of
extra turnips or corn.
But we think about
where that corn
or where that food is going
to go inside a person's body.
And we realize it's more
important for their health,
for instance, and that's where
our organic foods comes in,
than it is to make a
couple of extra dollars.
So what's always, in a
non-corrupt capitalism,
what's always given the highest
priorities are those things you
have in your reverse pyramid--
health, nature, a truly healthy
social life, the ability
for families to come together.
And, you know, when you
don't do that, what you get
is no paid leave, sick leave.
Or no guaranteed
paid sick leave,
as what's happened
in the United States.
>> REGINA: Even in the
United States, a very,
kind of, ungenerous vacation
policy where you get two weeks
of your life off.
Where in Germany, you get a good
six weeks right, for example.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: The ironic
thing about it is productivity
is actually higher when you
value people over money.
>> REGINA: And when we look at
the functional elements here,
a couple of things I have
as, you know, the bailouts.
We had the bailouts of 2008 that
really rocked people and made
them angry.
The same thing just
happened again.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: It did.
>> REGINA: The top corporations
and wealthiest people
in the world shorted markets,
made billions as soon
as the closures, you know, Covid
closures started happening.
Then they got bailed
out by the government.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: To
the tune of trillions.
>> REGINA: Trillions.
And where small
businesses are still
waiting for even a stipend.
So this is the
kind of corruption
I assume you're talking
about that has put everyone
in a vulnerable position.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Well, I mean,
an example of that was even
a small business that considered
someone who had like say 50
or fewer employees, well there
were hedge funds that were
making hundreds of millions of
dollars that were considered,
quote, small business, and they
got to the front of the line.
Rather than these
necessary businesses,
I'm sorry hedge funds, you
guys aren't that necessary.
We're serving whole communities
that were food based
and so forth were more
toward the back of the line.
>> REGINA: Very end of the line.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: I mean a bold
example of corrupt capitalism.
Because again, what was
the signifier that put you
to the front of the line?
Connection-- money, power.
Not life, liveliness, not
health, not necessity.
>> REGINA: Not cooperation.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS:
Not cooperation.
>> REGINA: Not care.
Not compassion.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: And if we
are to move from corrupted
capitalism to
connected communities,
that is the move
that has to be made.
That order has to be reversed.
>> REGINA: And so right now
though the problem is this
perception with people,
especially if people watch
a lot of media and
mainstream news.
And doesn't matter which side
you watch on mainstream news.
It can be conservative.
It can be progressive.
It can be liberal.
If it's mainstream, you're
getting this reflection
that the stock
markets of the world
somehow reflect our
economic health.
This was made very
plain to me in watching
a video in which
they were talking
about the various kind
of multiple crises
happening at one time.
You know, physical,
social, economic.
And they said and then we don't
want to see a financial crisis.
And I thought, wait a minute--
you just said economic.
And then I realize the
two aren't linked at all.
This BS game of showing
us on the news what's
happening in the stock
market is a little game
for the power elite.
And you know, there
are, yes, some people
have some of their money tied
up in pension plans in it.
But it doesn't represent us.
90% of it is just algorithm
trading to begin with.
It's not even people driven.
Let's look at one
of the graphs here.
The one from Zero Hedge.
The green line indicating
the stock market
as we see it, which
is totally artificial.
So what does that mean-- that
green line we're looking at?
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: The green line
has to do with the actual price
of stocks.
So again, stocks don't have
to reflect earnings or value.
>> REGINA: Not anymore.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS:
Not productive value.
All they have to do
is reflect demand.
So literally if you just
print money and borrow it
for zero interest and you
throw it into your company,
even if your company
is going downhill
in terms of productivity, in
terms of real world value,
it'll go up in price.
So that's what's happening.
>> REGINA: That's not value.
That's price, not value.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: When
they say value of a stock,
they're talking about
price of a stock.
>> REGINA: Nothing
with real value.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS:
Nothing with real value,
with financial value or with
kind of manipulated value.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
And I wanted to bring
this up because people
do watch the news and say,
oh no, our economy is OK.
Stock markets OK.
Pop back up again.
So OK, so then
what's this red line
mean here, which is more
of a real world value?
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
Earnings per share.
That means how much
is your actual stock
and the public company
that it represent
bringing in revenue from
the productive capacities,
capabilities, and an
output of that company.
Those have fallen off a
cliff as you all could know.
>> REGINA: Yes, so that's what's
reflected in this red line.
The real value has
gone off a cliff.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: And they
have never been further apart.
Ever-- these are records.
Even the Great Depression didn't
have this kind of disconnect.
>> REGINA: Yeah, this is what
I was talking about earlier.
This is where the real world
economy and the stock market.
These are two different worlds.
One is for people to
play with over there,
and the rest is for us.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS:
Well here's what's--
>> REGINA: We're on a
declining one right here.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: And here's
what's happened since we talked
about it earlier.
Here's what's happened
since 2008, 2009.
Back then it was a
financial crisis, not just
an economic crisis.
It was made to become
an economic crisis
because of the way we handled
the financial crisis back
in 2008, 2009.
There we bailed
out the big banks.
>> REGINA: And everyone
else lost their homes.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: And everybody
Too big to fail.
Too big to jail.
That was sort of the thing.
Oh we wrote everything,
the financial institutes.
We got to-- we have to
make them have liquidity.
So what ended up
happening after that,
instead of getting reform
together in these banks,
we had record bonuses handed
out the next year for these guys
to crash the economy.
And what the Fed did was lower
the interest rates so much,
that zero interest rates has
been the rule since then.
Everybody in your audience knows
that their savings account went
from 5-6% in 2000, 2002--
>> REGINA: To 0-2%.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: To 0-2% to now
basically 0% since 2008, 2009.
Well what can you do
with 0% interest money?
You can borrow it endlessly.
>> REGINA: They can.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: They can.
We can't.
But the big companies did,
and then your financial crisis
morphed into an
economic corruption.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: So now
the banks got backstopped
in a corrupt way, and they
passed the corruption onto
the rest of the productive
economy of the big businesses
or corporations.
They started to borrow
money at 0 interest rate
or near 0 interest
against the collateral
of their own organization,
their own company,
and buy up their own stocks.
And that's what they just
did with the recent COVID 19.
>> REGINA: Trillions
of dollars in bailout.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Everyone
was saying do not allow stock
buybacks.
Mark Cuban, who's
on Shark Tank said,
absolutely should be
outlawed because it distorts
an actual value of a company.
You can always jack it
up by just borrowing
infinite amounts of money,
buying up your own stock
and jacking up the price.
>> REGINA: So that's
a false world.
And I had it written down here--
10% of the population
own 84% of the stocks.
That's the real world.
That's a separate
world from our world.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: And
that's dangerous for them.
Because now for
us, the only thing
keeping even upper
middle class Americans on
is their pensions
and their 401ks.
They've got a little bit
of addiction or toe--
>> REGINA: They have
a toe into the market.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: They
have a toe into the market.
But if those pensions
dry up, literally no one
has an incentive to
keep the stock market up
except those 10%.
And yes they do have a lock
on a lot of the politics,
and that's part of
the corruption too.
The policies and the
policy are serving
the 10% on every issue
across the board--
conservative, liberal.
It doesn't matter, on
community, on environment.
You get 80% to 90% agreement
on so many issues and no action
is being done, because
that 10%, and more often
the top 1/10 of 1%--
>> REGINA: Are represented
by the top people
in our government.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
So this logjam has been
happening and building.
And now with this
epidemic coming forward,
we're actually getting
a lot of it revealed.
>> REGINA: Yeah, we are.
And like you say, this goes
beyond which side of politics
you're on.
It's both sides.
It's the people at the top that
are dealing with these lobbies
and, you know, with the banking
industry and Wall Street
directly.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
In fact, those people
are using cultural issues
to split us up so we don't
see the financial and economic
aspects.
And now that's
beginning to break down.
As you see the rich
people keep getting first
in line for
everything, even when
people are desperately poor,
libertarians and progressives
are beginning to
say, wait a minute.
they're starting
to-- they're starting
to move closer together
and say, we actually
have a common opponent here.
This is not healthy.
This is not what this
country stands for.
It's not what the
world stands for.
It's not what the environment's
going to accept anymore.
>> REGINA: It's not
what our spirit--
collective spirit is
going to accept anymore.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: And that
I think is the most powerful
thing.
And again--
>> REGINA: I agree.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: That's why
I love interviewing with you,
and I love watching your
own interviews with others.
And that is you're bringing
forward this notion
that it's not just pragmatic.
It's not just the history
is moving us or social.
It's the spirit now coming out
into this world in these very,
very powerful, practical ways,
and we have an opening now
to see ourselves as we've
never seen ourselves before.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
OK, now let's get back to what
this looks like because we're
talking economics here, right?
Now how do you actually
see this playing out
with trillions of
dollars of national debt?
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: The US
dollar is the world's reserve
currency.
>> REGINA: Even though we've
heard for years it was going
to fall, everybody
else is falling worse.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
So the United States can
print up $10 trillion
and give it to corporations.
And it will create an impact.
That's a lot of money, OK.
But it basically will
cause an inflation.
It'll decrease purchasing power.
The more and more you
expand the money supply,
especially if you're just
creating it out of thin air,
you've got more dollars
chasing fewer things.
So generally that
causes an inflation.
>> REGINA: But can you have
an inflationary period during
a recession and a depression?
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: I think it's
going to make money irrelevant.
>> REGINA: OK, interesting.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: I think it's
going to actually throw us
into a situation where
the money itself,
the authority behind money--
since there's no gold
behind it now anyway.
That went away in 1971.
>> REGINA: It's just
a belief system.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: It's a
belief system and the so-called
productive capacity of the
government and its citizens
that supports it now.
If that is going away,
if money itself--
it's being lent into the
economy to create productivity
or some kind of growth,
is now completely
decoupled from growth.
It loses its own,
kind of, reason.
It loses its authority,
its legitimacy.
>> REGINA: But what
does that mean, say,
for a person who's just
graduating from college
and starting their life?
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Well, I think
what it's going to mean is that
these really, really high costs
for health care in particular,
really, really high costs
for a college education
in particular, really,
really high costs for homes.
Those are the three big ones.
>> REGINA: Are they
going to go away?
Are they going to be reduced?
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: I think once
the authority of money begins
to collapse, and once necessity
has people moving together,
for instance, with homes
and young people not going
to colleges because they realize
it's kind of a boondoggle.
They're not going
to have the jobs,
and they have
skyrocketing costs.
It's not a good
investment anymore.
>> REGINA: And that's a
conversation we could have.
Your degrees, PhD is in the
philosophy of education,
and you would be
the first to say
college is bogus for a whole--
most sectors of young people.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Let's look
at the other one, health care.
So-call health care
is actually sick-care.
So many drugs are
being poured into this,
so much fear is being poured
into this to drive you
toward drug companies,
to drive you
toward palliative methods
instead of preventive
and health care methods.
I think it's going
to drive people
into doing their own
gardening, to go to organics,
to realize food is
medicine, to begin
to take care of themselves to
increase health responsibility
and let those guys--
the revenues
absolutely collapse.
Let colleges' revenues
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Because what they've been
doing with that kind of lending
has been predatory.
These kids, I mean,
you're 23 years old.
That's if you don't go
into an extended degree
into law or medicine.
These kids are stuck
with, you know, 40 to 80
to $100,000 of debt
getting out of college.
For what?
What kind of ordinary job that
a college degree will bring
can ever offset that now?
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: And they're
waiting in line for a job that
never emerges because jobs
are actually contracting.
Things are being automated.
Even pretty high, you know,
even pretty high things
like graphics, or even
computer programming
is now becoming automated.
>> REGINA: Right.
So you look at that, and people
start getting very nervous.
You don't get butterflies
in the stomach
and think, oh my god, how am
I going to support myself?
I'm young.
I'm just out of school.
The jobs are essentially,
as you say, contracting,
the number of jobs
or contracting.
So this brings
across the notion of,
there are a lot of people
that were young who
were supporting Bernie Sanders.
I mean that brought about this
huge, kind of, youth movement.
Obama did it in his day too.
This was a little different.
There was a kind of
practicality to this one.
It wasn't idealistic, as
much as it was practical.
Thinking we need to have
our health care covered.
And yeah, they
should start making
these big companies responsible
for paying their own taxes.
They were really connecting
in on what's called
democratic socialism, right.
That term scared
a lot of people.
But young people--
it didn't scare them.
They didn't baggage around it.
It meant something to them.
What do you think they were
looking to get out of that?
And now that this has happened,
ie the Covid phenomena
and the shut down and
slow down the economy.
What are they going to
get now out of this?
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS:
Well first, let me,
sort of, define a couple terms.
Democratic capitalism,
as I define it
in the book, as
money serving people
rather than people
serving money,
which is corrupted capitalism.
>> REGINA: Does that get
conflated with democratic
socialism?
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: The only
difference I make between that
and democratic socialism
is in democratic socialism
corporations and governments
serve people rather than people
serving corporations
and governments.
So they kind of parallel.
Democratic capitalism
really talks
more about the money
side-- free enterprise.
And so with a vital
democratic capitalism,
you have small business.
You have a really
active community
and local economies
in which people really
begin to circulate money.
You have low currency.
>> REGINA: Real value.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Real value.
And you'll also have
unproductive middlemen who take
a cut, like interest brokers.
You'd have pure
lending in democratic--
why do banks get in the middle?
We're getting 0%
interest for our loans?
Why don't we loan
to other people
who are building
houses, who are trying
to support their families.
That's democratic capitalism.
Democratic socialism also
has a place, in my opinion.
I don't talk about
it much in the book,
but it certainly has
arisen in the sense
that government should
also, and corporations
should serve the people.
Medicare for all would
save $500 billion a year.
That's acknowledged in
scientific and sociology
studies.
Because you don't
have the profiteering.
You eliminate that with
a single payer system.
>> REGINA: All the
admin, everything.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: And you
incentivize preventive health
and actual health.
Whereas in corrupted
capitalism system,
you're actually
incentivizing sickness
because that's what
pays the money.
It increases the
gross domestic product
but in the wrong kind of way.
And in fact, I was going to say,
the way to-- and they don't do
this because they don't make
this distinction and gross
national product or
gross domestic product--
distinguish between the parts
of gross domestic product that
increase the health of people
and the parts of it that
actually diminish or damage
the health of people.
And then that's your
real financial health
and economic health of a nation.
If you just throw
it all together
and say, doesn't matter what
kind of money you're spending,
this is how much
we're spending--
that's not good.
We want to spend less on
the things that damage us,
and more on the things
that enhance us.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
So in that sense, it seems
like if we had already had,
for example-- and these
aren't political statements.
We're just looking
at where we are now.
If we had had Medicare
for all already in place,
when something-- like
other countries did--
when something like
a pandemic hits.
Without even getting into any of
the politics of that or whether
it was right to close
it to that extent
or for how long--
forget all that.
If we had that in
place, whereas you
say the emphasis is on health
and prevention of illness,
how much better would
a country fare just
by having that system in place
for any kind of future pandemic
or epidemics?
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Absolutely.
Just in the administration
alone and the ability
to mobilize nationally
in a coordinated way
as we saw a disaster
happening in our country,
it would pay huge dividends.
Because all those
resources, institutions,
research institutions
would be linked
to serve a system broadly.
And it would have
basically one and not
all these little
teeny bits of plants.
Collecting data would be easy.
But the other part that
doesn't get talked about
is a preventive aspect.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
>> REGINA: We need to learn
to take care of our immune
systems.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Who are
at the highest at risk?
We have an overwhelming
obesity epidemic
in this country right now.
>> REGINA: Here and
England and Australia.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: And they were
one of the greatest at risk.
We have an overwhelming
diabetes too,
which can be solved almost
entirely with good diet, which
I don't encourage and neither
does the medical profession
because they make money off
of sick people and drugs
to treat diabetes.
They don't make it
off the healthy people
who don't need their drugs.
And it goes on and on.
Those are the people
that are most affected--
not just by COVID 19, but any
future pandemic and pretty
much any other disease.
>> REGINA: Well let's
get into another part,
and this has to do with again
the corrupted capitalism around
medical insurance in
general, and around this.
I mean, the fear-- what people
had so much fear around it,
rather than being--
first of all, we didn't
have enough knowledge.
We still don't have enough
knowledge on what it is,
how it acts.
Can it come back, and so forth?
And so people tended to not
take care of themselves.
And a lot of these people
didn't take care of themselves,
oftentimes because
they couldn't afford
to go to the hospital
and others out of fear.
But we've learned recently
that, for example, there
was an increase
in people arriving
at hospitals dead on arrival,
right, from heart conditions,
for example.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Because they
were afraid they would have
to pay and it would
bankrupt them.
And now you're putting
the health of your kids,
the ability to eat, the
ability to heat your home
or cool your home
up and against--
>> REGINA: Your life.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Your
life going to a hospital.
That should never be the case.
>> REGINA: Never.
Never.
Yes so now other countries--
Germany has fared fairly well
for a variety of reasons.
We don't need to get
into all of them.
But one of them is they
have a different way
of seeing their populace.
And during the COVID pandemic,
rather than just having people
tossed off of their jobs when
everything came to a halt,
the government subsidized
them for the employers
to keep their employees
on the payroll.
So they continued their income.
They could continue a certain
amount of normal consumption
so they didn't have to grind
to a total halt anyway.
And they're only experiencing
at this point in time
a relatively minor drop in
the GDP and everything else.
Where we're tanking.
I mean, we're going to be
circling the toilet bowl.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: And
we're taking even more
because we're not recognizing
in the stock market.
>> REGINA: Right.
We act like that's the
economy, and it's not.
So people aren't
paying attention
to what's going on here.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: The electronic
jolt that someone's trying
to get someone's heart
started back is being mistaken
for a leap in the economy.
And that's really what these
multi-trillion dollar subsidies
are.
You know, they are
not something that's
actually repairing the economy.
They're simply treas.
They're the same
as those paddles
that they've rub together and
try to get your heart started.
Yes, it's important to get
your heart started, otherwise
your economy is
really toast, but it's
not a long term plan for
economic health or economic--
>> REGINA: The things underneath
that the economy has to be,
the people have
to be taking care,
or allowed to have some kind of
graceful survival in this whole
thing.
So one thing you've
talked about now--
Germany, for example is
announced they're formally
in a recession.
Other countries are going
to-- already in a recession
and slipping into depression.
Our country debatably we may be
going into the latter category.
We will see how this plays
out over the next nine months
to a year or so.
Now when we look at that,
people are comparing it
to the Great Depression.
I know that you've
looked at tons of graphs.
You look at every kind of
graph, and you've looked
at how these track each other.
And they can look very
similar on paper, on a graph.
However, compared to what might
become a depression this time
around, it's not the same.
What is different
that's in place?
Even though we say we
have no real safety
nets compared to some
of the European nations
and other nations.
It is different.
It's not going to
affect us to the degree
that the Great
Depression did, right?
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS:
I don't think so.
My assessment is
that people aren't
going to largely go hungry.
And I even said in the book
way back when I wrote it,
and it's only proving to
be true more and more,
that I thought if
there are violence,
there would be
pockets of violence.
The big shift--
>> REGINA: Sleeping from
violence to that, you mean,
because people are starving.
Literally, they don't
have money for food.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Resentful.
>> REGINA: Or angry.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Or angry that
they're not getting bailed out,
and other people are
getting bailed out.
And then they're going
to feel entitled,
perhaps to say listen,
I'm going to take
some of that stuff I
should have gotten.
So you know, I think that--
but I also see as a much
stronger possibility
this radical localization and
decentralization of economies
into communities.
What we saw, even
in our community
in the foothills,
the Sierra foothills,
was that people were
doing exactly that.
There was a huge rush to the
local nursery to get plants.
Unbelievable,
suburban and rural,
and now even urban gardening
is becoming a big thing.
Where people are
deciding, hey, you're
going back to the Jeffersonian,
Thomas Jefferson roots.
And saying, we need to
be more self-sufficient.
We can't have food deserts.
We have to be able
to grow our own food.
And then when we grow our own
food, we have respect for it,
and it can be organic.
And we can trade
it with neighbors
and make sure that
we're not hungry.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
This isn't just a utopian dream.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: No.
It actually is happening.
>> REGINA: This is
practical and happening.
I mentioned in another show
that during this whole shutdown,
it was looking
like a black Friday
sale at the local nurseries
virtually every day.
They were so packed.
Home Depot and the nurseries.
With people wanting
to get on it.
Get their vegetable garden
planted for the spring,
and so forth.
Now in those times--
well I think one thing to note
too that in the United States,
this is possible for a huge
percentage of the population.
If you're not in a very densely
packed urban area like New York
City, for example,
you usually have
a little patch of land nearby
or for a community garden,
or even a little patch of your
own land in the front or back.
You can do these things.
And this is really
basic and essential.
We can grow our own food,
and now it's becoming clear
that people are ready to do it.
It took something to
jolt us into this part
of our self-sufficient.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: And once
people taste that life,
getting their hands in the
soil, all those good microbes
and viruses that we've been kept
from because we use triclosan
or some kind of
bactericidal soap,
and we never really expose
ourselves to the good stuff,
starts to begin to come back.
And we start to develop a
connection with the sun,
because we're out
in the sun weeding.
We're out in the sun you know
trimming these fruit trees.
And all of a sudden
we're beginning
to recall now, wait a minute,
this is the good life.
Compare this to the burying
your house, you know.
When it's a perfectly
nice day outside,
we see now families
walking consistently.
Bike riders going in ways that
are much, much more frequent.
>> REGINA: And we're also
starting to see right before
this shut down, there was an
increase in people getting
together, like in coffee shops
and such, even in the evenings,
playing games.
Bringing cards and board games--
not with their kids even,
but kids too.
This, kind of, very kind of back
to the 50s and 60s in a sense.
When people were
craving company with one
another and engagement.
And this is just kind of a fun
lighthearted way to engage.
We're already seeing
a pickup in that,
so this has driven it further.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: We've
needed that contrast.
And we needed a
really sharp shut down
for that to come to fruition.
I don't think it would have
happened in a gradual way.
So one of the great gifts
of this and the shutdowns
associated with-- whether
you agree with it politically
or not, as it's economic.
From a spiritual standpoint,
from an emotional standpoint,
from a mental health
standpoint, and definitely
from a cooperative social
and community standpoint,
it was absolutely critical
that we basically made
to stop cold turkey and engage
in reflection and silence
and stillness for a time.
And a lot of people then started
to go out into the gardens.
Started to then get
on Zoom or other,
you know, forms to
speak with their family.
>> REGINA: Yeah, this is
the silver lining of it.
I think looking at another
part that people may not
consider a silver lining,
some of these businesses
are not going to open.
A good percentage
will not reopen.
Some of them, if
you're a small business
and say you have a hair
salon, you can do it at home.
You can take your
stuff to people's homes
and do their hair
from their homes.
You can continue going.
It may not look like you
thought it was going to look.
In our neighborhood, a
lady is doing all her dog
grooming from her
garage on weekends.
She has a day job but
she loves animals.
Now a lot of this office
space and commercial space
is going to start going vacant.
And I mean, let's look
at what happens over time
when office space goes vacant.
When malls start having
a lot of vacancies.
When people realize that
their income has been reduced
and they're going to have to
maybe, you know, move back--
maybe families will combine.
You know, siblings
and their families
can move into one
larger house together.
I mean, there are creative
solutions that have always
been employed in other
cultures and we're
going to have to get creative
that way in the West as
well now.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: We are.
Ours, especially
the United States,
is a risk taking individualism
to create something
that, some new invention or some
massive success multi-million
dollar app you can sell to a
multi-billion dollar company.
And that was the notion
of continual expansion--
more, more, more.
Move away from other people.
Be the highest percent--
>> REGINA: More individualistic.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Be
more individualistic.
Get your own house.
You've somehow failed unless
you had your own house
and you owned your own house.
And now so much of
that is coming back
to the other direction.
That's going to create
a lot of opportunity.
It's going to create
a lot of contraction.
So on the real world, it's
actually going to open up,
I think, some serious
opportunities for people
to be solvent, and
to free up time.
Because they're slaving
away two families.
If you compare what
happened the early 70s,
one middle class family could
have one full time worker,
and could easily support--
>> REGINA: A mortgage,
a car payment.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS:
Food, the mortgage,
and a college
education for the kids.
Now with two full time
working, sometimes
working more than
one job, you can't
afford all of those things.
Where did all that money go?
It was being skimmed off through
all these financial mechanisms.
And now it's gotten to
its logical conclusion,
and you can't do it anymore.
It's collapsing back, and we're
beginning to find out it never
benefited us really anyway.
The stocks are owned by
a very small percentage
of the population.
We were churning out
our productivity,
and all the graphs
will show you, again,
that productivity skyrocketed,
but our actual wages
were flat during
that whole time.
So the difference of
that was being skimmed.
And now we're like,
hey, why don't we
use our own productivity
with each other?
Why don't we lend to each other?
Why don't we move in together?
You know, that certificate-- if
I don't get it from a college,
I'll still be able to learn.
I'll still be able to
have a meaningful craft.
So we're now empowered
as individuals.
Because they said you
need our certificate.
You need our stamp of prestige
or you haven't made it.
And now we're realizing
it's a bit of a boondoggle,
and we can come back
out of that and start
creating our own value.
>> REGINA: It's a matter of also
re-establishing now our self
identity, because we've gotten
used to those ways in which
our ego has seen itself.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS:
Yes, absolutely.
>> REGINA: Now to become a
little more humble and say, OK,
that part actually
don't see it as defeat.
That part isn't
working for me anymore.
Now it's time to
change the game.
Hey, my sister and her
husband are doing fine.
They've got a couple
extra bedrooms.
Maybe I can go there,
pitch in on the rent.
In some cases, families can
even buy a home together.
One of the developments
has been in the last decade
is multiple family
housing, which
has a central area,
central kitchen
but can house two different
families in one house.
Not necessarily a duplex,
but one largish house.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
You can have meals together.
You can buy things together
in bulk that save you money.
There are so many things.
And we've been, kind of,
propagandized against that
because there's
something wrong with you
if you have to move in.
There's something wrong with
you if you live cooperatively.
There's something--
and all of a sudden,
we're beginning to
say, wait a minute,
that makes sense
for the environment.
It makes sense for our budget.
It makes sense for the world.
We have a more intimate thing.
If I want to go out--
if you and I want to go
out, we have children
and we have a family
is living with us,
they just go with
the other family.
No babysitting necessary.
So we're beginning
to discover, wait,
a good life is one where
we have the freedom
to do things we want to do,
rather than always putting them
off.
And then to live the
kind of life that
will allow us to
do the things we
want to do rather
than putting them off.
>> REGINA: So where is this
spiritual opportunity here
in economic contraction to bring
people literally back in houses
together?
Extended family,
where they've been
able to afford to get away from
each other for a few decades.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: It's
going to mature us.
It's going to help us be more
forgiving and more graceful
by necessity.
And on the other
side too, this COVID
has also forced
people in houses that
don't belong together,
in abusive relationships
and so forth.
But we never heard
about those people
because we were in
our individual houses
and our own individual lives.
As we collapse together and
realize how more interdependent
we are, we will become more
aware of those people who truly
need help, rather
than shipping it off
on some institution or some
nonprofit to take care of it.
We will start taking
responsibility
to begin to protect and become
aware of the people who are not
being treated properly.
And we will have
them be able to move
into healthier
environments as well.
So on both sides,
both on the removal
and having too much
money, right, and having
it, quote, too good, and not
allowing yourself to bring it
back into the importance
of relationship,
we'll also be addressing
the other side as well.
>> REGINA: That kind of
creates a spiritual maturity.
And having to be
where you are, you
see where your own
buttons are being pushed,
what's going on spiritually,
psychologically,
emotionally with other people.
I mean, it gives us a
chance in a fast track order
really to come back together and
to first learn about ourselves.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: And
that's a good thing.
>> REGINA: What we're
bringing to the table.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: That's a good
thing you interviewed Calleman,
Carl Calleman.
He talked about that
regime is falling.
And what that regime is, is
this Western individualistic,
materialist regime.
What is better for spiritual
growth than the collapse
of a materialist regime?
>> REGINA: Patriarchal.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: And
the patriarchal regime,
where everyone is
propagandized--
>> REGINA: We don't
need strong man.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yeah, exactly.
>> REGINA: The
strong man dictators.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Give up a
responsibility to someone else.
Give your life over to
someone else for making money
for someone else.
That's what we've been taught
for the last 400 years.
>> REGINA: Well arguably,
even before that,
but certainly since
industrialization.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
Patriarchy has lasted
thousands of years.
But the last iteration of it,
of scientific materialism,
of industrialism, of
colonialism, of paternalism--
>> REGINA: All moves away from
spirit, away from intuition,
away from heart, community,
care, the feminine.
Now we are being forced
back into embracing
of the feminine strengths.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
And there is no
greater-- you can
be as politically correct as you
want, it will not make a dent.
But being forced into caring
and actually embracing
as a necessity, and
also something--
>> REGINA: It's beautiful.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: You want
for yourself is the best way
to bring the feminine
attributes forward.
>> REGINA: And now how long
would that have taken us if we
weren't simply ground to a
halt and have it stuffed right
in our faces, right?
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
>> REGINA: It could
have taken millennia,
another hundreds of years for
us to finally get this one.
That's what I see is
the beauty in this.
So now, in terms
of rebuilding here,
you talk about the three C's--
cash, coin, and community.
And let's also get into the
notion of debt forgiveness
while we're at it,
because there's
going to have to be
some of that, period.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: When you can
no longer expand like we have
for all the reasons--
environmental reasons,
or the fact that we just
have contraction of jobs.
Or the fact that all
of this is funny money,
and it's not based
in anything real.
When we finally become
real with all this,
we realize it's a lot
smaller than we think.
Then we have to reassess,
it's not going to be growth.
Growth is not to
create value here.
So what is?
I would say depth.
Depth and connection is
going to create value.
I talk in my book about
moving from capital
to relationship capital,
like money capital
to relationship capital.
I also talk in my book about
going from a possession
oriented, which is
materialist, right, material
society to a non-possession
or experience based
non-material society.
The thing that is beautiful
about non-material goods--
care, connection, gratitude,
spirituality in all its forms,
is that it's non-scarce.
It actually multiplies
the more you share it.
In our current materialist
objectified world,
it diminishes.
The more it's shared, the less--
>> REGINA: You feel diminished.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yes.
The less scarce it is--
>> REGINA: It's a take away.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: The
less valuable it is.
>> REGINA: Not good.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS:
In this new world,
these goods are all non-scarce.
>> REGINA: You're right.
Because the suffering
that we've had for so many
years has really been due to
the poverty of our relationships
with each other.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: It is.
And then we're
tying that poverty
to value we invest
in finite goods.
This is infinite.
We can grow
infinitely, but only in
non-material, non-scarce goods.
So why not make that our growth?
You know, the Bhutan talks
about gross national happiness.
That's a canary in
the coal mine, right.
That's where we
need to be going.
Instead of gross
national product,
we need to go to gross
national happiness.
Where our physical, mental,
social, psychological,
spiritual, emotional health
and the growth of that,
and the deepening of that is
what constitutes the new GNP.
>> REGINA: No, I agree.
And that's, I think,
the hope in all of this
is that we can find
our way to it that once
we get through the pitfalls
of what's coming up.
Now one of the things you
say, you said when you wrote
the book, but also now appears
that it might be more real
is that people may just
stop paying taxes in mass.
Massive numbers of
people stop paying taxes.
Then what happens?
What happens on a local level
and beyond to national levels
if people stop
paying their taxes
due to a certain
amount of poverty
going through the country?
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: You
could even do, I mean,
I think there will be some
people that simply say listen,
my taxes are being abused.
It's for corrupt purposes.
I refuse.
But you could even stop
short of that legally.
You literally can
move in together
and do bartering, trade, and
have your actual taxable salary
be so low that you don't
have to pay taxes on it.
>> REGINA: So once the tax
revenue's no longer there,
do you have a Draconian building
department, for example?
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: No.
>> REGINA: You have to pay
$30,000 for a permit to have
a trailer on your land?
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: No,
bureaucracy and technocracies
are going to be forced to
also contract seriously.
They're basically,
they were foot soldiers
for this elite,
this one percent.
And they were also
reliable voters
for the cities and political
machines that were paying them.
If that goes away,
then there has
to be a new basis of value,
a new basis of power.
And so that's going to be--
that's going to be
an interesting thing.
I don't know exactly
what's going to happen.
But with fewer tax revenues,
say steeply reduced tax revenue,
technocracy,
bureaucrats are going
to have to seriously contract.
Gavin Newsom already
is contracting,
I think, 10% just recently--
>> REGINA: For the
government agencies.
Yeah.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS:
Yep, for payroll.
That's going to
continue to accelerate.
These bloated pensions
are going to dry up and be
a lot, lot smaller.
And it's going to force everyone
into a much more community
based way of getting along.
Because it's not going to come
from some distant institution.
>> REGINA: Right.
You said in this cash
coining community,
we've got the community part.
What about the
cash and coin part?
What's that mean?
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Things
don't change overnight.
To me, I look, just as a
person who's pragmatic, grew up
in the Midwest.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: And I
noticed with you and I,
the things that matter
that really hold value from
an objective standpoint,
and there still are objects
of value, our arable land
that is cultivatable land.
For the most part, still
the US government's
dollars, just because we're
still the world's reserve
currency, and that would
be cash and then coin.
By coin, I just think
of gold and silver.
And some people have
asked, well is it Bitcoin?
I like what Mark Blyth said
about this, economic Mark
Blyth.
He's a contrarian.
And he said, listen, I
think Bitcoin is largely
a figment of imagination.
It says you can't store it.
You can't exchange
it for the most part.
You know, its value in a
normal real world sense
isn't well established.
>> REGINA: I mean, it's
certainly vulnerable
and volatile.
So right now at
this period of time
going into a recession,
possibly a depression,
we want things that are
simple that you can rely on,
that are understood,
that are transferable.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right, yep.
>> REGINA: Whether it's
oversized zucchinis or cash,
right.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: , Exactly and
gold and silver in this case.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
And gold and silver.
So that, still in your
opinion, will have some value.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: It does
because it's had historical
value.
>> REGINA: And when
people are scared,
you want something that
has some historical value.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yes, but it--
>> REGINA: Familiarity.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yes, but
it also has another thing.
When we were taken off the gold
standard and silver standard
to back money, we essentially
went into the Twilight Zone.
My money was now
controllable by elites
because it had no anchor.
So I think there's
going to be both
a nostalgic and a practical
turn back to gold and silver
as a basis for or
community exchange itself.
Zucchinis in local currency,
local dollars and services
because that allows it to
be tethered to something
that's not under
the manipulation
and mandate of someone else.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
No, that makes total sense.
Another thing you talk about
is radical decentralization.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yes.
>> REGINA: Explain
what that means and--
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Well
we're already seeing it.
I mean, look just from
the physical requirements
of quarantining.
Our community is
beginning to open up
where we are because everyone's
been shut down for a few weeks,
enough to have the
so-called coronaviruses
symptoms to run through.
So if you're going
to open up again,
are you going to
zip off to China?
Are you going to
zip off on vacation,
or are you going to start
staying in your own area
and patronizing as we
do our local coffee
shop and local farmers?
The farmers market
was the busiest
I've ever seen it in
the last couple weeks.
>> REGINA: In the first
weekend it opened.
Yeah.
I mean, everything
started opening back up.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: All the
best practices were there.
The masks were there.
The social distancing.
The people having distance
between to the extent
that they could.
But there was this
extra zeal to--
>> REGINA: Happy to be
out together, alive,
have fresh food.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: And to
support local business.
And it makes you safer, right?
Because you're not bringing
in all these weird viruses.
Or if you do, it's
just in a small way
that can easily be assimilated.
So I think it's helping
people understand
that it's safer physically.
But economically, it's
opening up a whole new avenue
of connection.
>> REGINA: That gives us
control over our true economy.
You're saying take on some
of these big boogeymen,
so to speak-- the
boogeyman of the past.
Take on big pharma.
We're all being faced
with this notion
or to vaccinate or
not to vaccinate.
Everybody's scared,
divided, and we're not
going to get into that debate.
But the point is we have
a choice in the matter.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: We do.
>> REGINA: And we decide whether
we're going to engage with
the pharmaceutical industry any
longer to the degree we have,
because it's been ridiculous.
The amount of drugs,
the number of drugs
that people are on
even by the time they
reach middle age sometime.
You with statins
and all, you know,
management of type 2 diabetes
and so forth, insulin.
That as you said earlier, we
can manage that with education.
Changing self practices.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: We can.
And not allowing ourselves to be
divided along traditional lines
to turn ourselves
against each other.
In terms of big pharma, the
best thing that we can do
is begin to develop our
diet and our exercise.
Diabetes too, I
mentioned before,
can almost be
completely eliminated
without any need for drugs.
That's already established
in mainstream society.
All we have to do is create
the culture around it
and the community support
and reinforcement around it.
Is that going to collapse
a lot of the drug profits?
Yes it is.
Is it going to help collapse
big pharmas hold or monopoly?
Yes it is, but that's
ultimately the only way we're
going to move things forward.
It happened and
it worked in the--
and a template was created
in the organic food movement.
We can do it with
every single thing.
With the big rent and the
big housing boondoggle,
we can move in together.
We can build our own
houses and communities
and withdraw from that.
And we can do this
in every single area.
We did it with organic foods.
We voted with our feet.
We said we're moving over here.
They tried to bring us back with
addictive high fructose corn
syrup and all kinds of pesticide
laden food to make it cheaper.
We said it's not
worth our health.
And they had to follow.
In fact, even tried to
buy up family organics
and so forth because they
knew that they could not
win that game.
Well we can do it in every area.
We can do it in the energy
area and move towards solar,
and move to a local production.
>> REGINA: We can do
it with transportation.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: We can
do it with transportation.
>> REGINA: Moving toward
hybrid or even electric cars.
The prices are coming
down on all these things.
Public transport,
using bicycles.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: And each one
of these moves is more local.
Is more decentralized.
It's more under our
control, and less
putting us dependent
upon somebody else.
>> REGINA: How do we get
to the big one, though?
The one that Bernie
Sanders movement
was trying to get behind.
And that is, how do
we make accountable
those who are not paying
their fair share, so to speak?
And this really is creating a
lot of resentment among people.
And part of it too is that
it's this kind of twisted world
where we give these people
our adulation and respect.
Why are we admiring and
adoring people like this?
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: And we
can make that distinction.
We can say, you have a
good product here helping
to create connections
and communities.
Or this app that's
allowing these communities
to do time sharing.
And then still say, but the
vast majority of your money
is being funneled into--
against us and against life.
Exactly.
So again, we have to do the
education around that and say,
we will buy these products
for these reasons.
And we will
absolutely, absolutely
band together across
divisions to elect
people we know are going
to tax these corporations.
>> REGINA: This is critical.
This is real-- in my
opinion, this is critical.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: And don't
allow ourselves to be divided
in that way.
We share a common goal.
Whether you're libertarian,
progressive, liberal
conservative-- of
sovereignty and community.
Universally loved and
accepted by all those people.
We now have to develop the
practice of acting on it,
and then also
critically examining
and acting against those
things which interrupt or go
against us.
We don't have to do
it mean spiritedly.
We don't have to--
we don't even have
to use the word conspiracy to
recognize it's a business plan.
They're going to use us for our
profits, not for our own good.
>> REGINA: You have said
this before on other shows.
These are not conspiracies
you are talking about.
This is a business plan.
The guys that have
the money and are
holding those kinds
of chips, we're just
part of their business plan.
We don't have to make--
we can just unplug and not
support that business plan.
And so I would like
us to show a graphic
that I'm really happy about.
Because I came up with it
thinking this is wrong.
When I kept hearing
all the conspiracy
theories, and a lot of
market conspiracies--
they're just simple facts.
They're truths that the systems
that are in place right now
are being used against
us, as you say.
But we've known
about the pyramids
where you have
the 1% at the top.
And we're called
the useless eaters
in a lot of derogatory terms.
About the poor human beings down
at the bottom-- the bulk of us.
So let's take a look at
the new inverted pyramid,
because I think it
really represents what
you and I are talking about.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Absolutely.
I love this by the way.
Regina, when you mentioned it,
I just saw so many uses for it.
And I saw it as
a perfect summary
of where we need to move.
I know that I could show
this graph to a libertarian,
to someone who shares many
different political views
or cultural views and they
would all agree with it.
And would all give him
a fun wonderful feeling.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
I mean, it doesn't matter
what side you're on,
we all want the same thing.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: We do.
>> REGINA: Politically it
doesn't matter what side.
We're just looking
at different lenses
to help us get to
this place, where
you can see in the pyramid
here, we're healthy.
We're happy.
We have family.
We have friendships.
We have community and
activity, and good health
and good healthy
food and so forth.
This is our birthright.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yes it is.
And it is the groundwork
for spirituality.
If we have that high
frequency, healthy living,
our spiritual development
will take off.
We've been in stunted spiritual
and metaphysical development
now because of the
way in which we've
given away our sovereignty
and allowed our Earth
to be polluted and allowed the
ways in which our societies are
structured not to
honor our spirits.
Now it's time that we
began to move forward.
To emerge with this
commitment, and this courage,
and this creativity, and this
compassion for each other.
>> REGINA: And this care.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yes.
>> REGINA: We have to start
caring about ourselves and one
another again.
That's
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Critical.
>> REGINA: Because a lot of
us stopped even caring about
ourselves.
We just ran ourselves ragged
to be part of the larger game
that we're not even the
ones that created the game.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
>> REGINA: We've plugged into--
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: We're
going to create our own game,
and we're going to
bring that care,
and we're going
to make it strong.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
I see it as a beautiful
golden opportunity
that's going to cause some
suffering in the short term.
Long term, we have to do it.
We have to come back together.
And I thank you for your work.
You've done so much research.
And I mean, every day you're
just passing on new insights
to me, which I absolutely
love because it
helps me do what I do.
But both of us have,
along with many people
watching this, this
one thing in common.
We're all looking for this
brighter, more connected,
healthier, more
sustainable future.
This is our golden opportunity
if we can get out of it.
Take this time to not just
go back to what we knew
and fall into fear, but really
consciously engage with it.
I think our time is at hand.
>> YIAMOUYIANNIS: I think
our time is at hand.
>> REGINA: Yes.
Thank you Zeus.
Zeus has done a number of videos
and articles on this topic
as well.
And of course, you can go
to Transforming Economy
available on Amazon and
other major booksellers.
And if you want more
of his research,
you can go to his
website citizenzeus.com.
You'll find a lot of stuff
to engage with there.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]